SpectraChroma takes emission spectra in plain text format and plots its color coordinates on the CIE 1931 Chromaticity Diagram (2 Degree Standard Observer).

--------------------

1) Importing spectra

You can import one or more spectra on the menu File > Import spectra, or by using the Ctrl+O shortcut. On the file selection window, you can hold Ctrl to select multiple files by clicking on each file; or hold Shift and click on the first and last file you want to select.

The spectra need to be on text format, as it usually is exported by the spectrophotometer or a graphing software. This program ignores the comment lines on the file, and only imports the lines with spectral data (wavelength and intensity, separated by a space or tabulation, one pair of values per line). SpectraChroma also detects automatically whether the decimal separator is a comma or a dot and interprets it accordingly. But if you are in doubt about the separator, you can open the file on a text editor and then search and replace all decimal separators by dots.

You can keep importing more spectra, and they will be added to the existing ones on the list and diagram.

The files that could not be read as a plain text document are ignored. If you can open a file in Notepad or a similar plain text editor, then the file can be read by SpectraChroma. Otherwise, before importing the spectrum to SpectraChroma, you need to first export the spectrum to text by using the software of your spectrophotometer or some graphing program (like Origin Graph or Microsoft Excel).

--------------------

2) Viewing the data

Once the files are imported, their CIE xy coordinates will be plotted on the Chromaticity Diagram and displayed on the list. The points are labeled counting from 1.

You can click on each item on the list to view its properties on the "color coordinate" frame. It allows you to select and copy (Ctrl+C) a value. The frame also displays an approximation of the emission color, and the spectral distribution on the visible wavelengths' region (380 to 780 nm).

You can change the view of the diagram by clicking on the "pan/zoom" button above it. Then to pan the diagram, hold the left mouse button and drag. To zoom the diagram, do the same with the right mouse button. The "configure subplots" button allows you to adjust the margins of the plot. You can reset the view with the "home" button.

You can change the appearance of the Chromaticity Diagram through the Edit menu or the following shortcuts:
F2: Show/Hide the grid lines
F3: Show/Hide the axes
F4: Show/Hide the data labels

--------------------

3) Saving the data

The Chromaticity Diagram can be saved by clicking the "Save" button above it, or by going to the menu File > Save chromaticity diagram (shortcut: Ctrl+S). Different formats are available, we recommend saving it to Scalable Vector Graphics (.svg) because this format can be scaled up or down indefinitely without losing resolution (it is worth noting Microsoft Office accepts SVG images). Another good option is Portable Network Graphics (.png), if SVG is not supported by the program where you want to use the image. PNG images cannot be rescaled indefinitely, though, but they do not lose color information as JPG images usually do.

You can save the Spectral Distribution on the menu File > Save spectral distribution (shortcut: Ctrl+D). The available file formats are the same as for the diagram, and the same considerations apply.

You can export all color coordinates at once on the menu File > Export all color coordinates (shortcut: Ctrl+E). The available formats are Microsoft Excel spreadsheet or text file. We recommend saving to Excel because it can also display the colors, beyond just showing the values as text. If you do not have Microsoft Excel to view the file, you can also use LibreOffice or Google Docs.

--------------------

4) Removing points from the diagram

You can select spectra on the list and remove them by pressing the Delete key (or going to the menu File > Delete selected spectra). You can select multiple spectra by holding the Ctrl key (add one at a time to the selection), or by holding the Shift key (add several at once to the selection, from the first to the last clicked). You can select all spectra at once by using the Ctrl+A shortcut. By default, SpectraChroma confirms whether you want to remove the spectra, but you can remove without confirmation by pressing Shift+Delete

You can also remove all the spectra by going to the menu File > New diagram (shortcut: Ctrl+N). This also resets the diagram to the default view.

It is worth noting that removing spectra from SpectraChroma WILL NOT DELETE the original spectrum files from the disk. This might be obvious, but it is good to just be sure :-)
